Added Feast streaming features tutorial (#1201)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/integrate/pages/streaming-features-with-feast.adoc

= Feast Streaming Features
:description: This tutorial will get you started with streaming features using the Hazelcast integration with Feast.

{description}

== What You'll Learn

You will setup an offline feature store with PostgreSQL and an online feature store with Hazelcast.

> Then, update the online feature store using a Jet job in real time from transctions streaming in a Kafka topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then update the online feature store using a Jet job in real time from transactions streaming in a Kafka topic.
```

Author: Fixed at: https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1201/commits/28518614a3e51945b93714ec0c2511469a6b4c61

== Before you Begin

You will need the following ready before starting the tutorial:

> * Hazelcast CLC. link:https://docs.hazelcast.com/clc/latest/install-clc[Installation instructions]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Hazelcast CLC - link:https://docs.hazelcast.com/clc/latest/install-clc[Installation instructions]
```

Author: Fixed at: https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1201/commits/28518614a3e51945b93714ec0c2511469a6b4c61

    description="A user that has executed a transaction or received a transaction",
    value_type=ValueType.STRING
)

user_transaction_count_7d_source = PushSource(
    name="user_transaction_count_7d",
    batch_source=PostgreSQLSource(
        table="user_transaction_count_7d",
        timestamp_field="feature_timestamp"),
)

user_transaction_count_7d_stream_fv = FeatureView(
    schema=[
        Field(name="transaction_count_7d", dtype=Int32),
    ],
    name="user_transaction_count_7d",
    entities=[user_entity],
    ttl=timedelta(weeks=1),
    online=True,
    source=user_transaction_count_7d_source,
)
----

. Before you can use features, you must run the following command:
+
[source,shell]
----
feast -c feature_repo apply
----
+
Outputs:
+
[source,output]
----
Deploying infrastructure for user_transaction_count_7d
----

. At this point, you are ready to start the feature server.
Note that the command below prevents the `feast` process from outputting to the terminal, since you will use the same terminal for running other commands.
+
[source,shell]
----
feast -c feature_repo serve -h 0.0.0.0 -p 6566 --no-access-log 2> /dev/null &
----
+

== Feature Transformation Using Jet

> You will create a Jet job tha reads transactions from a Kakfa topic, computes the number of transactions per user in the last seven-days buckets and populates the Hazelcast online store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will create a Jet job that reads transactions from a Kakfa topic, computes the number of transactions per user in the last seven-days' buckets and populates the Hazelcast online store.
```

Author: Fixed at: https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1201/commits/28518614a3e51945b93714ec0c2511469a6b4c61

  "http://localhost:6566/get-online-features" \
  -d '{
    "features": [
      "user_transaction_count_7d:transaction_count_7d"
    ],
    "entities": {
      "user_id": ["EBJD80665876768751", "YVCV56500100273531", "QRQP56813768247223"]
    }
  }' | jq
----
+
Outputs something similar to:
[source,output]
----
{
  "metadata": {
    "feature_names": [
      "user_id",
      "transaction_count_7d"
    ]
  },
  "results": [
    {
      "values": [
        "EBJD80665876768751",
        "YVCV56500100273531",
        "QRQP56813768247223"
      ],
      "statuses": [
        "PRESENT",
        "PRESENT",
        "PRESENT"
      ],
      "event_timestamps": [
        "1970-01-01T00:00:00Z",
        "1970-01-01T00:00:00Z",
        "1970-01-01T00:00:00Z"
      ]
    },
    {
      "values": [
        6,
        11,
        11
      ],
      "statuses": [
        "PRESENT",
        "PRESENT",
        "PRESENT"
      ],
      "event_timestamps": [
        "2024-07-29T07:24:00Z",
        "2024-07-29T07:24:00Z",
        "2024-07-29T07:24:00Z"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
----
== Summary

In this tutorial, you learned how to set up a feature engineering project that uses Hazelcast as the online store.

> You also learned how to write a Jet job that transform data and send them to a Feast feature server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also learned how to write a Jet job that transforms data and sends it to a Feast feature server.
```
